---
id: 35
url: /archive/2006-09-20-03-on-medick-future
title: 0.3, on Medick future
layout: archive
date: 2006-09-20 10:24:27.000000000 +02:00
next:
  url: /archive/2006-09-20-acoperire-cu-rcov.html
  title: Acoperire cu rcov
prev:
  url: /archive/2006-09-20-marks-face-primii-pasi.html
  title: Marks face primii pasi

---

I've got some emails in the last days (like 2) from people asking about "medick":http://medick.locknet.ro future.

They noticed that I was some how "on Rails" in the last weeks.

So I have decided to answer online on this question:



bq. The development on medick is not closed and the medick project is not dead!



It's just that I needed a brake from "evil PHP":http://www.flickr.com/photos/nataliedowne/97365899/ way of doing things.

After 4 years of coding where almost 90% from my time went to PHP, the only chance for me to evolve as a programmer is to look from time to time to other programming languages.

Ruby is too cool to be ignored, starting with the community that they have, the release process that they are using and the super tools that you get in the same package as ruby it self.

Rails is the killer application for ruby. They are not advertising only a rapid development web framework, they are promoting best practices.



Back to medick, I have a lot of nice ideas for the future, I even try to implement some of those without committing them to repository.

For sure, major changes will be introduced starting with version 0.3:



* php 5.1.4 (or higher) will be required since I want to use some nice features added to the language,

* replace xml configuration file with a php script,

* performance improvements to ActiveRecord (cheap cache using static for query results),

* more options when using ActiveRecord validations and more Validators to be added on the framework,

* update unit-tests (at least a cleaning is needed) to reflect all the changes,

* more docs.



A roadmap (maybe is deprecated already?) is "here":http://medick.locknet.ro/api/ric_TODO.html.



Anyway, I cannot estimate now a relase date for version 0.3, I cannot even say if the development on 0.2.x is closed, but stay tuned, I will let anyone know when I will add new features to the framework and how to use them.



For questions or support on medick, you can contact me via the "contact form":http://www.locknet.ro/contact. If you want to get involved in this project, just subscribe to the "mailing list":http://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/medick-devel and start asking questions there.



On the other side, my "rails":http://www.rubyonrails.org pet project, "marks":http://marks.29dots.com is the first item on my todo list. If you don't get "it":http://www.flickr.com/photos/planetargon/127984254/, ""I'd rather be on rails":http://www.flickr.com/photos/digitalnomad/73294250/ (&trade;)".
